# Homemade Cellular Network

## TL;DR

This anonymous repository provides the Python code for an homemade cellular network simulator involved in a submission for IEEE InfoCom 2024.

## Repository Architecture

In this section, we detail the content of the repository.

### `data/`

The directory `data/` contains all the data files generated by the simulator. There are two types of files: (i) the `configs` files, that gather the configurations of the cellular network tested during the optimization process, and (ii) the `rewards` files, that gather the corresponding objective function values obtained for each configuration tested.

Their names comply with the following template:

```
{TYPE}_{TOPO}_discrete_sinr_max_{ALPHA}_INSPIRE_{MECHANISM}_{BMF}_{ID}.txt
```
with

* `{TYPE}` being either `configs` or `rewards`,
* `{TOPO}` the name of the topology file,
* `{ALPHA}` the value of the parameter $\alpha$ for the $\alpha$-fairness,
* `{MECHANISM}` the tested resource-sharing mechanism (either `FULL_REUSE`, `NOMA`, `FFR` or `COLORING`),
* `{BMF}` the beamforming gain (in dB),
* `{ID}` the replication ID.

### `topos/`

The directory `topos/` gathers the files relative to the cellular network topologies. It contains two files:

* `topos/2022_T3_sites_Metropole.csv` the CSV file gathering the locations of all the base stations in France,
* `topos/Presquile_Lyon.json` a JSON file describing the locations of the BSs in the city of Lyon and the locations of the end-users distributed by a Log-Gaussian Cox process.

### `img/`

The directory `img/` contains the figures generated by the homemade simulator. They can also be seen in the figures of the paper submitted to InfoCom.

It currently contains images relative to a single topology, described in `topos/Lyon_Presquile.json`.

### `./`

The root of the project contains all the source files of the homemade simulator. It contains the following source files:

## Reproducing the results

To reproduce the results presented in the submitted paper, just type the following command:
```
python3 main.py
```

The file `main.py` evaluates the implemented resourche-sharing mechanisms (*i.e.* full reuse, FFR, NOMA+FFR and graph coloring) for multiple values of $\alpha$ (*i.e.* 0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 2) and multiple beamforming gains (*i.e.* 0.0, 3.0, 6.0).

As soon as an evaluation (*i.e.* an optimization process) is terminated, the tested configurations and the corresponding objective function values will be added to two data files in the `data/` directory. Their names will comply with the template described in the previous section.

## Visualizing the results

To generate the visualizations used in the submitted paper, just type the following command:
```
python3 visualize.py
```

The file `visualize.py` will gather all the data files and produce three types of visualizations:
* `{TOPO}_INSPIRE_cdfs_filtered.png`: the cumulative distribution functions of the Shannon capacities of the end-users in the simulated cellular network,
* `{TOPO}_INSPIRE_paretos_filtered.png`: the performance of the evaluated resource-sharing mechanisms in the output space (Avg Sum Rate per Cell $\times$ Fairness (Jain's Index)),
* `{TOPO}_INSPIRE_topos.png`: a visualization of a subset of the simulated cellular network, under the best configuration found for a given resource-sharing mechanism.

